# Qdcomp
``Qdcomp`` is a standalone software package to perform multiple decompositions of quantum circuit and quantum gates. The package primarly focuses on decomposing gates into the Clifford+T universal set by implementing the algorithm proposed by Ross and Selinger (2014): *Optimal ancilla-free Clifford+T approximation of z-rotations*. 

In addition to full circuit decomposition, `Qdcomp` provides simpler decomposition tools, including: 
* **CNOT** : decomposition of 2-qubits unitary into CNOT and single qubit gates.
* **ZYZ** : decomposition of single qubit unitary into three rotations along the Z axis.
* **Exact synthesis** : decomposition of an exact Clifford+T unitary into a series of H and T gates.
* A **Quantum gate class** to easily access information on decomposition outputs.

## Installation

To install `Qdcomp`, clone the repository and install the dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/CliffordPlusT.git
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Example usage

### Example #1

This example demonstrates the use of the `Qdcomp.decompositions.circuit_decomposition` function to decompose a circuit into gates from the Clifford+T universal subset. To construct the circuit, you must use a specific data structure (see function documentation for full details). Below is an example of decomposing 2-qubit circuit composed of an X gate on the first qubit with a desired error of 0.001 followed by a CNOT on the first two qubits.

```python
from Qdcomp.decompositions import circuit_decomposition

# Initialize circuit
circuit = [(np.array([[0,1],[1,0]]), (1,1), 1e-3), np.array([[1, 0, 0, 0],
                 [0, 1, 0, 0],
                 [0, 0, 0, 1],
                 [0, 0, 1, 0]]), (1,2), 0]. 

# Decompose circuit
decomposed_circuit = circuit_decomposition(circuit)
```
Output of the decomposed circuit will be a list of `QGates` objects, which allows easy access to the properties of the output gates

```python
first_gate = decomposed_circuit[0]

# Get Clifford+T sequence of first gate
first_gate.sequence

# Get matrix representation of first gate
first_gate.matrix

# Get target qubits of first gate
first_gate.target
```

### Example #2
This example demonstrates the use of the `Qdcomp.decomposition.zyz_decomposition` function to perform a decomposition of a single qubit unitary into three angles and a global phase representing three rotationnal gate along the z axis. 

```python
from Qdcomp.decompositions import zyz_decomposition

intial_gate = np.array([[0,1],[1,0]])

rotationnal_angles, phase = zyz_decomposition(initial_gate)
```

## Contributing

Need to see whith Theodore

## License

Released under the Apache License 2.0. See LICENSE file.

## Contact

If you have any questions or feedback, please open an issue or contact us at
* [francis.blais@polymtl.ca](francis.blais@polymtl.ca). 
* [marius.trudeau@polymtl.ca](marius.trudeau@polymtl.ca). 
* [olivier.romain@polymtl.ca](olivier.romain@polymtl.ca). 
* [vincent-2.girouard@polymtl.ca](vincent-2.girouard@polymtl.ca). 

## References

* N. J. Ross and P. Selinger, *Optimal ancilla-free Clifford+T approximation of z-rotations*, 2014. [https://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2975](https://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2975)

* V. Kliuchnikov, D. Maslov, and M. Mosca, *Fast and efficient exact synthesis of single qubit unitaries generated by Clifford and T gates*, 2012. [https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5538](https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5538)

* G. E. Crooks, *Quantum gates*, March 2024, version 0.11.0, [https://threeplusone.com/pubs/on_gates.pdf](https://threeplusone.com/pubs/on_gates.pdf)
